Tags: [[__My_projects]] [[__Machine_Learning]]
#MyProjects #MachineLearning 

# Create an Agent Pool
Before we install a Self Hosted Agent on Azure Linux VM, we need to prepare an Agent Pool in Azure Pipelines where that Agent will be added.

In order to create an Agent pool we can use the `azure_devops > ci_cd_setup > agent_pool_setup > setup.py` script ([[CI-CD pipeline with Azure DevOps, Docker and cloud Linux VM project - Create an Agent Pool|link]]).
# Create Azure resources
Run Terraform code to create all the cloud resources we need ([[CI-CD pipeline with Azure DevOps, Docker and cloud Linux VM project - Preparing cloud resources with Terraform|link]]).

Before we run this Terraform code we need:
- An Agent Pool prepared as described in the previous step.
- In that Pool there can't be any Agent with the same name as the new Agent we want to create. 
Otherwise, configuration of this VM will fail.

Run below commands from the `terraform` folder:
```
terraform init # only when running that Terraform code for the first time
terraform plan -out main.tfplan
terraform apply main.tfplan
```
# Connecting to the created VMs from our local computer through SSH
We can connect to the created VMs using SSH key generated by Terraform ([[CI-CD pipeline with Azure DevOps, Docker and cloud Linux VM project - SSH key generation|link]]) and by running this command on our local computer:
>`ssh username@ip_address`

Here is described how to get values needed for SSH connection:
- **ip_address** - In order to get IP addresses of the created VM we need to use the Terraform outputs called '`public_ip_address`'. (more info here - [[CI-CD pipeline with Azure DevOps, Docker and cloud Linux VM project - Terraform outputs|link]])
- **username**- The username value is specified by the vm_username Terraform variable ('azureadmin' by default).
# Prepare `.env` files
Provide proper values for the following variables in the `.env` file in the `azure_devops > ci_cd_setup > acr_push_and_pull` folder:
- `TENANT_ID`
- `SP_ID`
- `SP_PASSWORD`

We can get those values from Terraform outputs as described here - [[CI-CD pipeline with Azure DevOps, Docker and cloud Linux VM project - Terraform outputs|link]].
# Create resources in Azure DevOps and generate a YAML file
Now we can run the `acr_push_and_pull > setup.py` script which will create all the Azure DevOps resources we need ([[CI-CD pipeline with Azure DevOps, Docker and cloud Linux VM project - Creating DevOps resources using Rest API|link]]):
- A Variable group in DevOps Library - containing Service Principal credentials
- A Service Connection - linked to the created ACR
- Generate a YAML file defining what steps will be performed in our CI/CD pipeline

Generated YAML file will be saved in the same folder as the `setup.py` script.
# Move the generated YAML file to the repo
Now we can move the generated YAML file to the repository with code of the application which we want to deploy.
# Dockerfile and docker-compose preparation
In order to deploy our app using this generated YAML file, we need to properly prepare Dockerfile and docker-compose files like described here - [[CI-CD pipeline with Azure DevOps, Docker and cloud Linux VM project - Dockerfile and docker-compose preparation|link]].
# Create a CI/CD pipeline
Now we can create a CI/CD pipeline from Azure DevOps website. When doing that, we should indicate that we want to use the YAML file which we created. This option might be selected automatically.
# Azure Pipeline permissions
When we want to run a pipeline for the first time, using a newly created resources in DevOps, we need to run the pipeline, go to a website with its status and add permissions to use new resources.
# Cleaning up Azure resources
After we are finished we can destroy all the resources created in Azure. In order to do that, we need to use the following commands:
```
terraform plan -destroy -out main.destroy.tfplan
terraform apply main.destroy.tfplan
```
# Cleaning up DevOps resources
After we are finished we can delete all the DevOps resources which we created. In order to do that, we can use the `cleanup.py` scripts from both folders from the `azure_devops > ci_cd_setup` folder:
- `acr_push_and_pull`
- `agent_pool_setup`

They take information from the `.env` files which we already prepared to identify which resources to delete.