Tags: [[__My_projects]]
#MyProjects 

# Introduction
We use Docker to prepare environment to interact with AKS but it is not necessary to use it.

Instead of running a Docker container on our machine, we can prepare environment for interacting with AKS on our host machine itself.

If we have a Linux or MacOS, then we can take bash scripts from this Dockerfile and execute them on our machine.
# How to create and use the image
Terraform code will generate a Dockerfile and save it in the docker folder in this repository ([[MLflow on AKS project - Files generated by Terraform (using template files)|link]]).

Docker image created by this Dockerfile is used to:
- Build and push to ACR Docker images
    - It is done when starting a container
    - Those images will be used for deploying the MLflow Tracking Server and running the project
- Install Helm charts:
    - For deploying Tracking Server
    - For running MLflow project
- Interact with AKS using `kubectl`

In this image we are going to have:
- Installed Azure CLI - Which will be used to:
    - Get credentials to AKS (create the `.kube/config` file) what will enable using `kubectl`
    - Push images to ACR
- Installed and configured `kubectl`:
    - We will have prepared the `.kube/config` file used for authentication to AKS which enables us using `kubectl`.
- Installed Helm
## Build and push to ACR Docker images
When starting a container for interacting with AKS, the `build_and_push.sh` bash script will be executed which will build and push to ACR Docker images.

More info here - [[MLflow on AKS project - Building and pushing images to ACR|link]].
## Service Principal for permissions
When building the Docker image for interacting with AKS, we will run the following Azure CLI commands:
- `az aks get-credentials` - To create the kubeconfig file (`.kube/config`). That will allow us to use `kubectl` to interact with our AKS cluster.
- `az acr build` - To build and push to ACR Docker images.

To run those commands successfully, we need to use a Service Principal with proper permissions for accessing Azure.

That's why, when building this image, we need to login to Azure using `az login` using a Service Principal.

It is prepared by Terraform as described here - [[MLflow on AKS project - Creating Azure resources with Terraform|link]].