Tags: [[__My_projects]]
#MyProjects 

# Introduction
We use the Helm chart from the `docker > helm_charts > mlflow_setup` folder to deploy all the resources needed to run MLflow projects. 

There are 3 subfolders in the `templates` folder for deploying different resources:
- common - Common resources for both, deploying the Tracking Server and running MLflow project:
    - ACR Secret
- `mlflow_project` - Resources needed specifically for running MLflow project (not related to the Tracking Server):
    - Volume claim
    - Secret
    - Service Account
    - Role binding
- `tracking_server` - Resources used for deploying Tracking Server:
    - Volume Claim
    - Tracking Server Secret
    - MLflow Tracking Server deployment
    - Service
# Common - ACR Secret
The `ACR Secret` resources created using a YAML template from the `common` folder:
- Contains Service Principal credentials for authentication when pulling images from ACR.
	- This Service Principal is prepared by Terraform ([[MLflow on AKS project - Creating Azure resources with Terraform|link]])
- Is used by the Tracking Server deployment and in the Service Account used in the Job running MLflow project.
# mlflow_project
Resources created using YAML templates from the `mlflow_project` folder:
- Volume claim
	- Used in the Job which runs MLflow project. It is linked to File share in Azure Storage Account and it provides project files to run.
- Secret
	- It is used by the Volume to authenticate when connecting to Storage Account.
- Service Account
	- Used in the Job which runs MLflow project. It enables reading a secret used for authentication when pulling images from ACR.
- Role binding
	- Assing proper permissions to the Service Account allowing for reading secrets.
# tracking_server
Resources created using YAML templates from the `tracking_server` folder:
- Volume Claim
	- Which will be used by MySQL which will act as a backend store. It will store data in Azure Disk (created on demand when deploying Volume claim).
- Tracking Server Secret
	- With values for connecting to MySQL (backend store) and Azure Storage Account (artifact store)
	- Used in the Tracking Server deployment
- MLflow Tracking Server deployment
	- Uses a secret for pulling image from ACR
	- Uses another secret for connecting to MySQL (backend store) and Azure Storage Account (artifact store)
	- Uses image from ACR pushed there from the container for interacting with AKS
	- Runs the `mlflow server` command to start the Tracking Server
- Service
	- Used to assign DNS name to the Tracking Server Pod
# Dependencies
In the chart dependencies we have:
   - MySQL - Which will act as a backend store.
# Installing the chart
Everything will be running in the namespace we define. We install this chart by running the following commands in the `/root/k8s/helm_charts > mlflow_setup` directory:
```
# Install dependency chart, i.e. MySQL (backend store)
helm dependency update

# Install the chart
helm install mlflow . -n mlflow --create-namespace
```
## Prerequisites
For deploying this chart we need:
- Docker image in ACR
	- Which will be used for deploying pods.
	- It can be prepared using the container for interacting with AKS. More info here - [[MLflow on AKS project - Docker container for interacting with AKS|link]].
- `values.yaml` file
	- Which can be generated by the Terraform code. More info here - [[MLflow on AKS project - Files generated by Terraform (using template files)|link]].
- Service Principal
	- We use Service Principal's credentials when creating a ACR secret (`common > acr-secret.yaml`)
	- This Service Principal needs to have a scope for our ACR and role 'acrpush' allowing to pull images from ACR
	- It is being created by Terraform ([[MLflow on AKS project - Creating Azure resources with Terraform|link]])