Tags: [[_My_projects]] [[__Data_Engineering]]
#MyProjects #DataEngineering 

# Creating Azure resources with Terraform
In the terraform_linux_vm folder we have terraform code which creates our VMs and configures on them Spark and Kubernetes by executing bash scripts on them. 

We have there the `main.tf` file which creates all the resources. That file uses modules defined in the `terraform_linux_vm > modules` folder. Each module is dedicated to creating one type of resource in Azure.
## Terraform outputs
Terraform creates two outputs: `public_ip_address_vm_1` and `public_ip_address_vm_2`. They are printed at the end of executing 'terraform apply' and they can be accessed by running the command:
```
terraform output
```
## SSH key generation
We are using the `modules/ssh` module which generates SSH keys as strings which are saved on our local computer and created VMs. They will be used for connecting to the created VMs.

The ssh_path Terraform variable specifies where on our local computer the private key will be saved. The recommended one for Windows is `C:\\Users\\username\\.ssh\\id_rsa` (if we save the private key here then we don't need to provide a path to that key when running the 'ssh' command).
## Executing bash scripts on VMs
After creating VMs using Terraform we are executing on them bash scripts using the azurerm_virtual_machine_extension Terraform resource which uses Azure VM Extension.

Those bash scripts are used to configure both VMs for running Hadoop. They can't be used on their own on a Linux machine since they are rendered using the Terraform templatefile function first before execution. More information about that here [developer.hashicorp.com](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/templatefile).

We are inserting into those scripts variables specified in the templatefile function (what can be found in the `terraform_linux_vm > main.tf` script) and also we are using there escape sequences. More information about that here [developer.hashicorp.com](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/expressions/strings).

Logs from executing a bash script on VM can be found on that VM in the `/var/lib/waagent/custom-script/download/0/` folder. There are the 'stdout' and 'stderr' files with logs. More info about that here: [learn.microsoft.com](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/extensions/troubleshoot).
## Network security rules
For our VMs we are creating a Network security group in which we defines security rules. Those rules specifies how our VMs can be accessed. They are defined in the `modules > networks > main.tf` file in the azurerm_network_security_group resource.

In every security rule we allow for inbound traffic using TCP for specific ports. That will allow us to access from our local computer different websites generated by Hadoop, Spark and Jupyter.

This networking setup is crucial to make sure that Hadoop cluster works properly.
# Hadoop setup
We are setting up Hadoop on two VMs:
- **VM1** - Which acts as a master node
- **VM2** - Which acts as a slave node

On both VMs we are creating a Hadoop user (with username specified by the vm_username Terraform variable) which will be executing Hadoop commands and which will have proper permissions to folders.

We are setting up Hadoop by executing bash scripts on both VMs (using the azurerm_virtual_machine_extension) which will download and configure all the necessary files, set up passwordless SSH connection from one VM (master node) to another (slave node) and create all the necessary folders, and grant proper permissions to the Hadoop user for those folders.

Then we can start manually the hadoop cluster as described earlier in the 'Repository guide > Starting Hadoop cluster' section of this documentation.
## Hadoop processes
Below is described which processes we will be running on which nodes.

Processes running on the Master Node:
- SecondaryNameNode
- ResourceManager
- NameNode

Processes running on the Slave Node:
- DataNode
- NodeManager
## SSH setup
We need to have:
- SSH private key saved on VM1
- SSH public key added to the authorized_keys on both VM1 and VM2

Hadoop needs to be able to connect from VM1 through SSH to the localhost and also to VM2. That SSH key pair will be generated by Terraform. Then on both VMs we will execute bash scripts (using the azurerm_virtual_machine_extension) which will save the private key on the VM1 and add the public key to the authorized keys on both VMs.
## Hadoop config files setup
We are executing two bash scripts from the bash_scripts folder (using the azurerm_virtual_machine_extension):
- `vm1/configure_hadoop.tftpl` - It is executed on the VM1. It performs the following actions:
	- Edit `/etc/hosts` file - It assigns the hostnames of both VMs specified by the Terraform variable hostnames to the private IP addresses of both VMs.
	- Save the SSH private key - That key was generated by Terraform. It will be used for connection from VM1 to VM2.
	- Add the SSH public key to the authorized_keys - That is the key matching the private key mentioned in the previous step. It will be used for connecting from VM1 to the localhost.
	- Install Java
	- Download Hadoop and Spark files
	- Modify `.bashrc` file - Specify there proper environment variables required by Hadoop and Spark.
	- Modify Hadoop and Spark files:
		- `hadoop-env.sh`, `yarn-env.sh` and sp`ark-env.sh`
		- `core-site.xml`
		- `hdfs-site.xml`
		- `yarn-site.xml`
		- `$HADOOP_HOME/etc/hadoop/masters`
		- `$HADOOP_HOME/etc/hadoop/workers`
		- `$SPARK_HOME/conf/workers`
	- Create required folders and assign proper permissions to the Hadoop user for those folders - That's needed because Hadoop will be using the Hadoop user in order to modify
		those folders.
	- Set up and run Jupyter Notebook.
- `vm2/configure_hadoop.tftpl` - It is executed on the VM2. It performs almost the same actions as the script executed on the VM1. The only differences are as follows:
	- We don't save here the SSH private key. We only add the public key to the authorized keys so the VM1 can connect to the VM2 (we don't the VM2 to connect to the VM1).
	- In the `.bashrc` we don't specify the `HADOOP_CONF_DIR` env variable (which is needed to run Spark shell from the master node.)
	- In the `hdfs-site.xml` file instead of adding the `dfs.namenode.name.dir` property we are adding `the dfs.datanode.data.dir`. That's because We want to run a name node process 
		only on the master node and a data node process only on the slave node.
	- We don't create the masters and workers files.
	- We create and assing permissions to different folders.