Tags: [[__My_projects]] [[__Data_Engineering]]
#MyProjects #DataEngineering 

# Introduction
We are setting up Hadoop on two VMs:
- **VM1** - Which acts as a master node
- **VM2** - Which acts as a slave node

On both VMs we are creating a Hadoop user (with username specified by the vm_username Terraform variable) which will be executing Hadoop commands and which will have proper permissions to folders.

We are setting up Hadoop by executing bash scripts on both VMs (using the azurerm_virtual_machine_extension) which will download and configure all the necessary files, set up passwordless SSH connection from one VM (master node) to another (slave node) and create all the necessary folders, and grant proper permissions to the Hadoop user for those folders.

Then we can start manually the hadoop cluster as described earlier in the 'Repository guide > Starting Hadoop cluster' section of this documentation.
# Hadoop processes
Below is described which processes we will be running on which nodes.

Processes running on the Master Node:
- SecondaryNameNode
- ResourceManager
- NameNode

Processes running on the Slave Node:
- DataNode
- NodeManager
# SSH setup
We need to have:
- SSH private key saved on VM1
- SSH public key added to the authorized_keys on both VM1 and VM2

Hadoop needs to be able to connect from VM1 through SSH to the localhost and also to VM2. That SSH key pair will be generated by Terraform. Then on both VMs we will execute bash scripts (using the azurerm_virtual_machine_extension) which will save the private key on the VM1 and add the public key to the authorized keys on both VMs.
# Hadoop config files setup
We are executing two bash scripts from the bash_scripts folder (using the azurerm_virtual_machine_extension):
- `vm1/configure_hadoop.tftpl` - It is executed on the VM1. It performs the following actions:
	- Edit `/etc/hosts` file - It assigns the hostnames of both VMs specified by the Terraform variable hostnames to the private IP addresses of both VMs.
	- Save the SSH private key - That key was generated by Terraform. It will be used for connection from VM1 to VM2.
	- Add the SSH public key to the authorized_keys - That is the key matching the private key mentioned in the previous step. It will be used for connecting from VM1 to the localhost.
	- Install Java
	- Download Hadoop and Spark files
	- Modify `.bashrc` file - Specify there proper environment variables required by Hadoop and Spark.
	- Modify Hadoop and Spark files:
		- `hadoop-env.sh`, `yarn-env.sh` and sp`ark-env.sh`
		- `core-site.xml`
		- `hdfs-site.xml`
		- `yarn-site.xml`
		- `$HADOOP_HOME/etc/hadoop/masters`
		- `$HADOOP_HOME/etc/hadoop/workers`
		- `$SPARK_HOME/conf/workers`
	- Create required folders and assign proper permissions to the Hadoop user for those folders - That's needed because Hadoop will be using the Hadoop user in order to modify
		those folders.
	- Set up and run Jupyter Notebook.
- `vm2/configure_hadoop.tftpl` - It is executed on the VM2. It performs almost the same actions as the script executed on the VM1. The only differences are as follows:
	- We don't save here the SSH private key. We only add the public key to the authorized keys so the VM1 can connect to the VM2 (we don't the VM2 to connect to the VM1).
	- In the `.bashrc` we don't specify the `HADOOP_CONF_DIR` env variable (which is needed to run Spark shell from the master node.)
	- In the `hdfs-site.xml` file instead of adding the `dfs.namenode.name.dir` property we are adding `the dfs.datanode.data.dir`. That's because We want to run a name node process 
		only on the master node and a data node process only on the slave node.
	- We don't create the masters and workers files.
	- We create and assing permissions to different folders.